169.254.169.254/latest/metadata = encontrar metadata

- EC2
ENI's are bound to AZ!

- EBS
Fast snapshot restore
st1
io1 and io2 multi-attach available with up to 16 instances

- RDS

Storage backed by gp2 and io1
Maximum storage threshold for storage scaling
Read replicas are EVENTUALLY CONSISTENT, therefore ASYNC!
MUlti-AZ replication are SYNC because they need to be prepared for disaster-recovery
We still pay for stopped db, so backup-and-restore might be a better strategy if our DB is ocioso
RDS Proxy
Max number of read-replicas is 5!

- Aurora

Proxy fleet for serverless
Aurora Cross Region Replication exists and is very fast
Aurora Machine Leaning to use ML services for recommendations
On-prem to Aurora: Percona XtraBackup to S3, then S3 to Aurora
Aurora Database Cloning to create diff environments

- Elasticache

Estrategias: Lazy-loading, write-through e Session Store
Memcached has no replication, persistance and backup-and-restore
Elasticache does not support IAM Auth
Redis Sorted Sets for element uniqueness and ordering
Redis Auth to force user to enter credentials to access data

- Route 53

CNAME can't be used with hosted-zone as origin! Instead, use ALIAS!
Alias is A or AAAA
Can't set TTL of ALIAS!
Alias can not be used for EC2 DNS directly!
Calculated healthchecks as the healthcheck of the healthcheckers, with IN, OR, etc... rules

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- S3

Multipart upload is a must for files bigger than 5GB
Glacier Instant Retrival and Flexible retrival have a min. storage duration of 80 DAYS!
Glacier Deep Archive has a min. storage duration of 180 days!
Glacier Flexible Retrieval retrival types: Expedited (5min), Standard (5h), Bulk (12h)
Glacier Deep Archive retrival types: Standard (12h) and Bulk (48h)
Transition actions: Change objects between different storage classes
Expiration actions: Delete objects or objects versions, incomplete multipart uploads
S3 Analytics: Recommendations for S3 Standard and S3 Standard-IA
S3 Requester Pay: Shifting the object-retrival payment responsability to the AWS account that retrives it
S3 Events Notifications: Triggers events after API calls are made to S3
S3 Transfer Acceleration: To speed-up transfers from diff parts of the globe
S3 Byte-range fetch: Used to get only a specific part of the request and speed-up download
S3 Select and Glacier Select: SQL queries on S3. Uses S3 Inventory to list objects, then S3 Select to query them.
S3 Batch Operations: Used to perform batch-actions on S3, such as deleting objects, moving objects, encrypting objects, etc.
SSE-S3: Server-side encryption with AWS-Managed keys
SSE-KMS: Server-side encryption with KMS keys
SSE-C: Server-side encryption with customer-provided key
MFA Delete: Enforces that drastic S3 changes, such as deleting objects and disabling bucket versioning, should use MFA-given code
S3 Access Logs: Used to log API calls made to a bucket. Logs should be directed to other bucket, otherwise there'll be a loop
S3 Pre-signed URLs: Temporary URL to access S3 objects
S3 Glacier Vault Lock: Rules to enforce WORM on Glacier
S3 Object Lock: Enforce that objects wont be deleted. Compliance mode: NO ONE CAN DELETE. Governance mode: Some admins can delete.
S3 Access Points: To give access to some object prefixes to some group of users, such as: /sales, /tech, etc...
S3 Object Lambda: Used to apply changes to objects before they are fully provided to users

- CloudFront

Origins: Can be S3, EC2, etc..
Origin Access Control: Allows only CloudFront distributions to access your origins, instead of leaving them open
Origins that sit inside of a SG need to allow the IP of edge-locations in
CloudFront Geo Restrictions: Denies access to your workloads from chosen geographical locations
Price classes: 100: Only N.A and Europe. 200: Doesn't include S.A and Australia. All is All.
Cache Invalidations: To deliver content to edge-locations instantly, without TTL

- Global Accelerator

ANycast IP is when the same IP can point to multiple servers
2 Anycast IP's
Clients requesting the app go through AWS edge locations to fasten the process

- Snow Family

Snowcone comes with DataSync agent installed
Snowcone for edge computing, up to 8TB
Snowball for edge computing, up to 80TB
Snowmobile for data-transfers, up to 100PB
OpsHub to manage SnowFamily devices
SNowfamily devices can not transfer data directly to S3 Glacier. Lifecycle rules should be used for that.
Snowmobile better than Snowball if transfers are over 10PB

- Fsx

Deploy Filesystems on AWS
Fsx for lustre: HPC (high-performance computing)
Fsx for NETAPP ONTAP
Fsx for Windows File Server
Fsx for ZFS
Scratch file system: No data replication, used for short-term processing
Persistent file system: One replication in the same az. Used for long-term processing

- Storage Gateway

Can't transfer directly to S3 Glacier. For that, use lifecycle policies

S3 file gateway: Creates local cache for S3.
FSX file gateway: Creates local cache for FSX
Volume gateway: Used mostly to backup local storage to S3. Cached volumes: Are cached. Stored volumes: Scheduled backups to S3
Tape gateway: Used to backup local tapa-based processes to S3
Hardware Appliance: Storage Gateway requires virtualization. If that's not possible, AWS can provide a Hardware Appliance.

- Transfer Family

File transfers over FTP, SFTP and FTPS

- AWS DataSync

Transfer inside AWS don't need agent, ALL THE REST DOES!
Snowcone comes with DataSync agent installed
File permissions and metadata are preserved
It's not continuous. Data replication happens on a defined schedule

- SQS

Async
Message Visibility Timeout is the time that a message remains "invisible" for other consumers
Long polling is a way to reduce api calls to SQS. Continuous polling of messages
FIFO Queue preserves ordering

- SNS

Many services can send data to SNS
Integrates with S3 Events Notifications
SNS FIFO Topic (Can only have SQS FIFO as destiny)

- Kinesis Data Streams

Records coming in have a Partition key (which shard it'll go to) and a Data blob (the data itself)
Records coming out have also a sequence number, which says in which shard it was stored

KDS Capacity modes are Provisioned and On-demand

Provisioned means we'll choose the amount of shards. Shards here have 1MB/s IN and 2MB/S OUT
On-demand scales on demand, with 4MB/s IN and OUT
VPC Endpoint Interface is available

- Kinesis Data Firehose

Directs data to AWS destinies, such as S3, Redshift, HTTP endpoints or 3rd party tools, such as DataDog

It's NEAR REAL TIME, because KDF has a 1MB buffer, and data is only delivered if it's full.
If the buffer doesn't fill up within 1min, the data will be delivered anyways. But it's not instantly.
KDF can optionally use a lambda-function to transform data before it's delivered


- EC2

... CONTINUAR!
